Well, hi everybody. Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel. If we haven't had a chance
to meet yet, I lead customer marketing at Posit. We're the open source data science
company building tools for the individual, team, and enterprise. So thanks so much for
hanging out with us today. The Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in
the world of data across all different industries and connect with others who are facing similar
things as you. And so we get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place,
except not next week, because next week we will be taking off because we'll be in Seattle
for Posit Comp next week. So I just mentioned this, but for anybody who just jumped in now,
we'd love to have you join us virtually if you're not able to join us in person in Seattle.
And so we'll share that here in the chat again as well. But also if you're watching us as
a recording in the future on YouTube and you want to join us live, there'll be details
to add this Hangout to your calendar below. And just make sure it adds it for 12 Eastern
time so you can join us live. And I really like adding this in now to our intro. But
I know people really enjoy connecting with other attendees here. So if you are interested
in connecting with other people, I want to encourage you to say hello here in the beginning
and introduce yourself. Feel free to share your LinkedIn or role, where you're based,
something you do for fun. We're all dedicated to keeping this a friendly and welcoming space,
the friendly and welcoming space that you all have made it, and love hearing from you
no matter your years of experience, titles, industry, or languages that you work in too.
If it's your first one, I'll add it's 100% okay if you just want to listen in here too,
or if you've been joining for weeks. Although we love to get to hear from you live. So there's
three ways that you can ask questions or provide your own perspective. So you can raise your
hand on Zoom and I'll call on you to jump in. You could put questions into the Zoom
chat and feel free to put a little star or asterisk next to it. If it's something you
want me to read, maybe you're in a coffee shop or walking your dog or something. And
then third, we have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously. And our team
will share that here in the chat in a second. With all that, thank you so much for joining
us today. I'm so excited to be joined by my two co-hosts for today, Acacia Duncan and
Blythe Koons from Articulation. And so as you may know, all Posit.com speakers receive
coaching from Articulation. And so this was actually one of my favorite parts about doing
a talk. And Articulation has been coaching speakers for Posit.com for the past five years.
So I thought it'd be really fun to have Blythe and Acacia join us here at the Hangout. And
so I'd love to just turn it over to both of you to have you just introduce yourself briefly
and also share something with us that you like to do outside of work too.
Thanks, Rachel. And hi, everybody. My name is Acacia Duncan and I'm the Director of Coaching
and Training at Articulation. And I got to say today, I have a little bit of imposter
syndrome being with all of you because I live in the world of communication usually.
And here I am with all of you incredibly smart data people, many of whom I have had the honor
of meeting through the coaching at Posit.com. Knowing a little bit about me, I guess what
you need to know is that I've always kind of had this dual personality. Even back in
college, I was a double major. I majored in theater performance. So all of this emoting
that you see where I'm super expressive is like totally natural to me. This is where
I live and where I've been trained to live. But I also couldn't get enough out of that.
I had to get something more concrete. So I also got an economics degree. So I really
do enjoy numbers and math and things like that as well. And I feel like I bring some
of that into our work as well. And I think it's important to be able to hear things in
different lenses. For fun, I am really jealous that you all be in Seattle because my favorite
thing to do when I have time is to get away from Columbus, Ohio, where I live, where everything
is really flat and kind of boring landscape. I don't want to speak badly about where I
live, but it's kind of boring where I live. And I love to get out to the mountains. So
I'm jealous that you all be near Mount Rainier, which is the very first mountain that I ever
camped on. So that's a little bit about me. I'll toss it to Blythe now.
Hi, everybody. I'm Blythe Coons. And I have to say, I was a little bit nervous that I
wouldn't know anybody. And of course, I'm seeing all of these people that I know from
past coaching years or this year. And it's just really wonderful to have you all here
today. I am an executive speech and communications coach for articulation. And I came to this
position in a little bit more of a roundabout way than maybe Acacia did. I did not come
to the training in acting until it was my third degree. But when I went to college,
my parents always said, whatever you do, if you can communicate well, you can do anything.
And I took that to heart and I became an English major. And since then, I've done it all. I've
been a high school English teacher. I've been a field hockey coach. I have been a VP at
a steel manufacturing firm. I've run a co-working space and done high-end hospitality. I've
done legal and financial services and HR. And I landed here at articulation and it really
seems like everything came to where it was meant to be. I love, I see you, Mike, Mike
K. Smith. I really feel like I landed in the right place. And part of that is due to Acacia
and her lovely husband. And part of that is the community that Columbus is and how
once I returned to Columbus about eight years ago, everything started to fall into place for
the rest of my life, which is really nice. My favorite thing to do, I don't want to sound too
much like Acacia, but let me tell you, I'm so excited to be going to Seattle because I'm going
to get some fresh air and outdoor time. And I'm definitely taking hikes on Saturday and Sunday.
But one of the other things I really love to do is find new and exciting food. And oddly enough,
Columbus is like a really great place for that. So I feel very fortunate to
have that close to home. So we have the opportunity to find a new fun restaurant.
Well, thank you both so much. And I think we just hit over 200 people right now,
and I think you're going to give Adley a run for his money on the most attended data science.
Oh, we need to get more people here then so we can put that in Adley's face.
Tell your friends.
But I know when we were just chatting before the Hangout, we were talking a little bit about these
threshold concepts of public speaking. And I thought this would be a nice place to start
with our conversation. Could you tell us a little bit more about what those threshold concepts are?
Sure. And I feel like threshold concepts is what I would say is jargon probably to many people on
this call. So let me start by defining them. But before that, I think it helps to know
what we do at Articulation because many people at Posit know us through coaching speakers to
deliver a talk. So when we come in and we're coaching to deliver to a talk, we're helping
you work on a communication, a single thing. But the mission of our company is actually to
empower leaders to deliver consequential communications. And I think it's really
important that the person in that sentence comes before the communication. So threshold concepts,
and if anybody here is in education, you may already understand what threshold concepts are.
These are ideas that are inherent to a field that you have to truly understand
if you want to progress in the field. So threshold concepts with speaking are things you have to
understand in the core of your being if you want to be a great communicator versus just
have one good communication and always starting from scratch. Threshold concepts are really
transformative. They really change the way you think and the way you behave once you understand
them. What else? They cross the discipline. So you'll see them popping up in lots of ways.
And as we talk about them today, I bet people on this call have experienced them.
And they're also sometimes really troublesome. I'll admit that I don't like some of the threshold
concepts, even though they're true. They give me a hard time. I don't want them to be true.
They cause me problems. So that's what threshold concepts are. And there are six when it comes to
public speaking. Blythe, do you have those up and ready to go?
Yeah, absolutely. So the first one, I think, is the one that's probably hardest to wrap our heads
around. And it's that speaking is habitual, not natural. Because we are born, potentially,
with the ability to speak. And that isn't true for everyone. But for most of us, it is. We think
that speaking is something that we can just do. But public speaking and being a good and effective
communicator is habitual, which means that it can be learned, that there are a set of skills
that you can start to incorporate into your life to become better at doing that. And so for those
of you who say, oh, I'm not a good speaker, or I don't like public speaking, it is something that
there is a future for. And I think that's really important, right? That you don't have to stop
and not do it just because you're not good at it. At this moment, you can become good at it.
And that's exciting, I think. The second one is speaking is embodied. And
maybe this is a no-brainer, but we thought it was really important to call out. Because we
talked to a lot of people who are saying to us, well, I ran it in my head. And let me tell you,
I've done plays where I did nothing but run the lines in my head for days and days and days. And
then the first time they came out of my mouth, I stumbled and fell flat, and it didn't go well.
That's my biggest example of learning lots of words. But if we're doing it in our head,
we're not actually putting all the pieces and parts together, because speaking is embodied.
There is a muscle memory to it. So when the words come out of our mouth and we stand on our two feet
or however we're going to present those words out loud, we start to learn something new about
the words that we're actually sharing. So that's something to consider if you're like, I was running
it in my head. I knew it really well five minutes ago. Maybe say it out loud and see what changes.
There's a great comment here from, there was a great comment in the chat, Mike Smith,
like dead on, right, with the imagine preparing for your piano performance by reading the music.
And that's all you do. It's totally the same. Thanks, Mike.
Yes, brilliant. The third one is that speaking is social. And this is, this means that it really
involves other people. So we have to be considering our audience at all times. We
sort of started thinking about these threshold concepts when we heard, have you ever written
something in general to no one in particular? And the same thing can be true about speaking.
Have you ever said nothing specific to anyone in particular? And of course, people are like,
well, I talked to myself, I talked to myself, but even talking to yourself has a purpose.
And so we really consider speaking to be social. There's an audience to consider,
what are you trying to do to that audience? And the audience makes the meaning, like a different
audience is going to change the kind of information you want to share. But it also includes the idea
that speaking is rhetorical. And that's a, like a fancy jargony word, but really it means that
you are doing it for a purpose. And it can also include the idea that speaking and speaking words
out loud is temporal. And even if it's being recorded like this is today, that recording
is going to be watched at a different time in a different context, and therefore different
influences will be taking place. The fourth is that speaking is messy. And it took us a second
to get to this one because originally it was more about, well, speaking, the process can be non-linear.
And this is absolutely true. And for those of us who have done coaching with us, you know that
we'll come in and say, okay, what's your big idea? But maybe you have a lot of data and that's how
you get to your big idea, or you have an idea first, and then you have to find the data that
supports it. So there are lots of different ways to approach a message and a communication.
And I think that's something to consider. But the other part about speaking being messy includes
the inherent risk that comes with speaking your thoughts out loud to a group of people that you
may or may not know. And so there's vulnerability there. And all of those things are tied up in these
threshold concepts. The fifth one is that speaking contains multiple genres. And
just, if you would, throw into the chat some of the genres that you've all encountered in
public speaking. These would be like situations or types of speaking communications that you'll
be called to do. Sermons. Absolutely. Colloquial. TED Talks. Fantastic. Business. Convincing people.
Humor. Yes. I want to see the horror talk. I really do, Trevor. All of these. These are fantastic.
So what you may have noticed from all of these toasts, made of honor toasts,
shares for shareholders for non-profit, all of these different genres require
maybe different skills. And not maybe. They do require different skills. Because your audience
is going to be different. And what you're trying to do to that audience or have them do is going
to be different. And it might require different language. And it might require a different setup,
like a physical setup. All of these things are part of genre. And so we have to consider all
those parts and pieces when we're preparing for a communication. So you're going to give a very
different pitch to a board, either in a non-profit, shareholders or stakeholders or whatever,
than you would to, let's say, a panel discussion for a bunch of R and data nerds, right? And you
guys all call yourself nerds. So there's love in that term. So those are things to consider
about the different genres. And yeah. The last one is speaking requires feedback. And I don't
think that there is any better case study than POSIT and the coaching that we do for the speakers.
Because they come to us to get feedback, not just from Acacia and me or our colleague and founder
Ruth, who offer feedback on structure and organization and things like that. But they
also come to get feedback on their content, which they get from other members of the audience and
other speakers and other members of your community. So that feedback is really important. But also how
the feedback is given is really important. And that's why we structure it so carefully to make
sure that you are getting feedback, the speakers are getting feedback that is valuable and doesn't
throw them off course and doesn't totally explode their talk at the last minute, which we've seen.
And so all of those feedback elements are really, really important as well.
Those are our six, those are our six threshold concepts. What did I miss, Acacia?
I don't think you missed any of them. You know, it's so interesting when I hear them,
because I've heard them so many times now, they sound so obvious every time. But so much kind of
starts to fall out from them. And when we're coaching people, we really see people kind of
take missteps when they really don't fully embody what it means that speaking is social and that the
audience gets to make meaning from what you say. So that means I can't use my language like threshold
concepts without explaining it to you and hoping that you follow me and that there's a risk you
don't understand me. It's rough. I am just loving seeing the chat that's happening right now and
everybody just connecting. I got slightly distracted for one second, but I want to jump to,
there was an anonymous question that came in a few minutes ago. And it was, I hear the phrase
storytelling being used a lot when presenting data. Are there any resources or methods you
can suggest to help with constructing the story? So a couple, you said resources first.
There's a podcast on storytelling with data. It might be data storytelling or storytelling with
data. And I've listened to quite a bit as well of that as well. And when I hear people using the
term storytelling, and we get lots of people calling in saying, hey, can you help my team
with storytelling? I know they might mean very different things. So let me kind of break down
the different types of storytelling you might mean. One in data storytelling, there is the visual
storytelling. And I know when people talk about data and storytelling, sometimes they are actually
meaning the visual representation of that storytelling. And does the visual help you to
tell the story? So that's one storytelling. Another storytelling when people use that is what they
mean is the overarching message. So they would be talking about an entire communication and they mean
storytelling is the art of the entire communication. That's not the way I like to use storytelling
because I like to think of that as the structure and the organization of the message. And then the
last way to think about it is a discrete story, something that has a time and a place and characters.
And when it comes to working with a lot of data scientists and a lot of people who work with data,
what I find can help is to use the last category of storytelling to level up your ability to
communicate data. Because our brains are actually, they more easily understand people. So if you can
take your data and tell it as a story of people or a person, you're a lot closer to connecting with
what your audience might understand. Blythe, is there anything you might want to add around that,
like storytelling for data people? No, I was locked into the chat. So I'm sure
you did a fantastic job, but we can't listen and type or read at the same time.
Yeah, there's actually an example in one of our classes. I could pull it up and show you, but
there's a structure to storytelling that can help. And that is, and I didn't make this up,
storytelling is way older than we are. And there are a ton of other ways you can tell stories. But
the structure is you always want to start with the context, which is at minimum, it's your time
and your place and your characters. So when you're walking through your data, start by orienting
people to that context first. Then you share the action, what actually happened in the story.
So in your data, you would be then showing what you were measuring or talking about what you're
doing in the data analysis, what you're looking at. And then the last is the result. And that would
be your finding. So if you do have a data visualization up, you would want to point to
where people should see in the visualization, the finding. As you can see at this place on
the graph, there's this big difference here. And that tells us this. That's one structure you can
use. JD, I see your hands raised. You want to jump in here? We can't hear you yet. Or maybe you
I lowered my hand, but didn't unmute myself. Sorry. One of the patterns I've noticed with
analysts is a desire to tell a story about their data or their analysis as a hero's journey with
themselves as the hero. And basically tell every step they went through. And I strongly advise
against this because I find for almost every audience, unless you're training an analyst of
how to do that work, but if you're presenting to executives or anything, they kind of don't care.
They want to hear more of the pattern you laid out previously about observations, findings,
conclusions. And my wife was a newspaper editor. So she's always like, you business people,
bury the lead. So I have a tendency to put a very front page of like, here's where we're going.
And I kind of lead with my conclusions. Then I tell a story arc that isn't my hero's journey
of what an amazing analyst I am, but more like, here's what we learned. Here's the conclusion.
I kind of tell them what I've told them we were going to tell them there at the end. Can you guys
explain that design pattern? What works? What doesn't? How to avoid the hero's journey? Or if
you think I'm off base with that, could you all shed some light on that? I 100% think you're on
base with it. Like our boss likes to, and so I can use this knowing probably everyone in the room,
know Star Wars as a metaphor. What she always likes to say is when you're actually delivering
a message or telling a story to your audience, you need to remember that they are Luke Skywalker.
They're the hero. Not you. Yeah. Not you. Not you. Now you might be Obi-Wan. You might have
a great lightsaber that you want to point out to them, but you're not actually the hero of the
journey. And that they have a Darth Vader. So I would say when you're thinking about those
structures of tell them what you want to tell them, tell them, and then tell them again, right?
Tell them what you told them. Those kinds of structures are all designed around the repetition
that an audience really needs to hear. It is also helpful for people to know where you're going
at the beginning. Like we want to know that Cinderella is going to get the prince and
everything's going to turn out happily in business. We want to know that in the first 30 seconds. I
don't want to wait till the end of the story in business for that. So those structures really,
really help. But fundamentally, I think where people can get off when I coach them
is that they're answering a question that they want to know the answer to. There you go. Whereas
you want to focus on what question does your audience want the answer to. Sometimes they're
asking the wrong question and you need to actually help bring them to a different question.
But the more closely you can get aligned to the question that's in their mind, the more successful
communications usually are. That's my perspective, but I agree with you. You're not the hero.
My wife tells me that every day.
I see, Arsenis, you asked the question a little bit earlier. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yeah, sure. Thank you so much, Rachel. And yeah, thank you both, Akesha and Glyde, for
chatting with us today. My question is a pretty simple one, I think. Maybe not. I was wondering
if you all had maybe some themes that you've noticed in folks that work with data a lot.
And I think James kind of touched on one of them just now. But if you might talk about kind of
broader themes where folks that work in data or analysis or economists like you and I, Akesha,
where we could improve generally, things that maybe where we don't always hit the mark or
we're not quite connected. So in terms of PositConf talks, there are definitely themes.
There are story talks, there are package talks, and there are sort of, here's this big idea.
And am I missing any of those themes for what we hear in PositConf?
I'm sure there are other themes, but those feel like the biggest ones.
Those are the big three. But I think, is it Arsenis? Is that how you pronounce your name?
Arsenis, yeah.
Arsenis, apologies. Okay. So Arsenis, I think what we see the most
is people getting a little bit too bogged down in the details.
And I did see a question early on come into the chat that was like, how do you know
how much to tell somebody? And it really depends. It depends on your audience. It depends on how
much they know. It depends on how much you want them to know. But it also depends on how much
time you have to do that. So a lot of this is like your life's work. And so every moment of it
seems incredibly important. And this is sort of where we get into the hero's journey. I want to
tell everybody exactly every single step I took and every single line of code I wrote.
And really, it's about, again, to Acacia's point, it's about pulling out these ideas,
these bigger headlines. And really, it's about identifying sort of, if you have a lot of time,
and let's say that's 10 to 20 minutes, you may want to isolate three big ideas that help you,
that you can put all of the other smaller ideas, you can group all of the other smaller ideas into.
So if it's a matter of how do I decide what I share, put it all on the wall. And then organize
it. See if there are themes around those ideas that come together. And if there are things,
if there are outliers, then maybe they don't need to be shared. Maybe they go into an appendix.
Maybe they're not relevant to this topic. But it also goes back to what Acacia said,
in that you have to keep returning to the question that you are answering. And it is
the question on the audience's mind or that you want to put into the audience's mind.
And that should help streamline what you share. There is a danger of a question being too big,
too broad. And so you really have to think about right sizing the question that you're answering.
And again, that's also going to help you narrow down the information that you disperse.
And you know, Blythe talked about an appendix. So I'll just say we could probably give a whole
other session on visualization while you're speaking. But I'll give you the headline of it,
because I do think it's a mistake that I've seen frequently with data people,
not just data people, though. And that is trying to put all of your thoughts on the slide.
And the audience can't read and listen at the same time. So the more words you put in front of them,
as we're all experiencing, if you're trying to read the chat, you can't listen to me very well.
It's really hard to do both. So if you put lots of words in front of people's faces,
it's going to be hard for them to actually hear you. If you're giving someone a complex
visualization, or you really want them to pay attention to a graph with results,
stop talking for a little bit. Give them a moment to actually absorb that information,
especially when you're in a business context, right? And that's the ultimate outcome you're
going towards is you want everybody to have shared knowledge. So that's a very specific one,
visualization. Thank you. And Blythe, when you were talking about the
whiteboard, it just reminded me, ever since my training with articulation, now when I'm
preparing for a talk, I just write a bunch of things on sticky notes and just put them all
over the table and then try and group them together to figure out what the themes are.
Me too. I'm working on a project right now. They're all over.
Can I ask a follow on to that? Sure.
What do you guys think? I'm a preacher of the slides for your presentation and a document
for circulating for reading. Otherwise, you get a shitty version of either it's either a bad
document in the shape of a slide or it's slides with too many words. So I do one or the other
and kind of encourage folks to do that. But people look at that and they're like, that's a lot of
work. And what I usually find is what I want to do first is circulate a written document.
And then when it comes time, after lots of people have opined on that and edited and everything,
and it's going to come time to share it with a group, I'll reduce that to slides. That works
for me. I'm not sure that works for others. What design patterns have you guys seen to avoid this
thing where we're making a slide deck that is both a shitty slide deck and a shitty document
at the same time? How can we make something that's purpose built that's good? I mean,
obviously, some of this is always going to come down to how high of importance,
I'm a communication coach, that's not great English, but how important the communication
actually is, because this is all going to come down to a battle for your time and what you have
time to invest. The more important, the more you would want to lean into everything having
a purpose for its use. So while I'm speaking, I want, we call it the walking deck. This is the
deck that you would be using while you're talking so that people can follow along and so that you
have any little facts you need along the way and you're speaking. And then there would be either a
read ahead, which I agree with you. I think if it's about reading, you probably want to go into
a different format than a PowerPoint. And now that I'm learning more about how you guys do things
with Cordo and things like that, I'm learning that that would be less difficult than I would
find it because I don't understand how to do that. But yes, a document is better for reading.
But if you can't do that, you could do the more full deck with full sentences to share. Or if the
culture of your company, some of you may work for companies where that's just the culture of the
company, you share PowerPoint decks. There is one company we do a lot of work with that's a large
bank. And their CEO wants a PowerPoint deck that he can read before the leadership meetings.
That means it trickles down to every layer of the business. And they can't change that until
their CEO changes the culture. So then you might have to live within the culture of your company.
But keep in mind what you need to do to be successful as a communicator, which is usually
lesson what's on the slides while you're speaking. So that would be like one intense
set of slides for pre-read. And then when you pitch or do the in-person meeting,
maybe a reduction of that with just the most salient points you're trying to make.
Yeah, usually removing a lot of X words. Doing that as two different slide decks is
entirely more open-minded than I have historically been. So thank you.
I see, Greg, your question you just put into the chat touches on this exactly. Do you want to
jump in here? Yeah, and no coincidence that it also comes from a banking organization.
Maybe that's just the evil of financial services.
Do you also have the PowerPoint culture where communications are always being shared via
PowerPoint? Yeah, and I'm terrible at it. Every project, we need like an 80-page PowerPoint deck
that it includes. It's, to James' point, kind of the hero's journey, but it needs to document
every aspect of the project. And so if we have a pitch for a very basic idea, we need to release
a new product. I've been through a lot of PowerPoint training where it says you keep it as
simple as possible, not lots of colors, not tons of words, put your big idea up front.
As you mentioned, kind of go back, walk them through the why, and then come back to the
request at the end. But that's not how we generally do it. We really want very
wordy slides that I think read more like a Wikipedia page than a presentation. And I'm wondering,
as I said, maybe it's the financial services, but how have you tried to combat
that culture and turn it back towards consultative presentations, your persuasive
presentations, not documents that are a database, basically?
So, I mean, that's a big question because that's a culture shift question as well.
Where we've seen people have some success at their level in the organization when that happens
is that they create what is expected of them in the company. Because unfortunately,
if you're not in a position to change the culture, I'm not sure how effective it would be to be
the squeaky wheel. It might depend on your organization, though. An organization that's
really open, you might be able to be like, hey, I know I'm not the leader here, but you could
share things. But from your seat, wherever you are, what you could do is do that whole deck as
people are expecting to have as a read-ahead or leave-behind and then hide slides. So, when you're
speaking, the slide is hidden. And if someone asks a question, you have the information with you
that you can pull up and put in front of their face if they want to see it.
But you're aiding them as listeners when you do less. Because usually what happens to people
if they have busy slides in front of them is they either stop listening so they can read
or ignore the slides and focus on their listening or try really hard to do both and kind of fail at
both so they don't do really well at either. So, that would be the best I could give there
in terms of that idea. Yeah, I appreciate it. You could also share with them that Amazon years ago,
it's been, do you remember how long it's been? Like a decade now?
Yeah. It's been like a decade. Amazon decided they were done with these terrible PowerPoint decks
and they mixed PowerPoint decks. And what they do now is they create a one-page written memo. And
it's a very structured format they have to follow. And the beginning of any meeting is silent while
everyone reads the memo. And then they talk and they do their usual discussion around it. And the
idea behind it, as Jeff Bezos talked about it, was that the slide deck is easy for the speaker
and hard for the listener. Whereas the memo is really hard for the speaker or the deliverer
and easier for the listener or the absorber. So, you could share that Amazon success story.
Oh, thank you. I'm going to jump to Grace's question first and then Mike, I see your hands
up as well. But Grace, you had a question around the speaking is messy part. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. Yes, thank you. So, as one of the threshold concepts,
speaking is messy and that's somehow something that I'm good at. So, what advice would you give
to remove the messiness from the content spoken? Yeah. So, Grace, I saw your question. Just tell
me a little bit more about what you mean by the messiness of the spoken content.
So, probably, like an example, you would be prepared or you would have specific ideas to
talk about. And then once it's your turn to talk or go through these ideas, it gets all messy and
probably the order of the ideas gets interrupted and you don't convey or I don't convey the
specific message that I wanted to convey from the beginning.
Okay. That's a helpful explanation. Thank you. So, there are a couple of things happening here.
The first I'm hearing is that you might be having some stress responses, which is completely
normal. And we work with people who are... I don't think I'm muting myself. I'm so sorry.
So, Grace, I think one of the things that you're touching on are stress responses and
stress behaviors that are coming out. And that's one of the ways we tend to get jumbled up.
When we go into a high-pressure situation and we think it's going to go one way and then
it gets derailed, we immediately start to backtrack or mess things up. Things don't
come out fluidly the way we want them to. So, you need to acknowledge that you're having a
So, you need to acknowledge that you're having a stress response. And there are a couple things
that you can do to waylay those, to really basically short circuit what's happening in
your brain. So, that's the first. And if you want to learn more about stress behaviors and
stress responses, we can certainly talk about that. But I don't know that it's useful to go
into that in depth here. The other thing, Grace, that I'm hearing you say is that you get interrupted.
And oftentimes, people interrupt because you haven't gotten to what they want to know
fast enough. And so, that structure that we talked about a couple minutes ago about giving them the
end of the story up front, that bottom line up front, can really help them know that you're going
to get there, that this is the point you're going to make, and you're on your way to get there.
So, it might help to restructure the way you're thinking about your information if you're getting
interrupted, if people are derailing your presentations. And remember to stay on task
by answering the question on their mind. Sorry, go ahead.
So, the interruption that I was mainly talking about or meaning is maybe not from people or
from listeners, but like one's own maybe stress response, as you said, interrupts the flow of
ideas. And that's a block probably. Okay, we're going to tell you the biggest
secret of them all. Don't forget to breathe. It sounds so small, and it is so powerful.
In the moment when you are feeling like things are going off the rails,
stop and take a breath. And make sure you take a deep breath, like feel it expand your belly,
not just your chest, right? Because you're just going to hyperventilate if you keep it really high.
But it is going to make a big difference if you breathe. It's going to give your brain a moment
to reconnect. It's going to give everybody a pause. And I love it. You're all breathing right
now. And it feels different. It does feel different when everyone takes a breath.
Yeah. I just want to agree with Jared put in the chat, like the bravest people of all
are often the people speaking in not their native language. And having worked with a lot
of people speaking English, and it's not their native language. And even for some people who
maybe they're just their brains don't think linearly, right? They think in webs. And I
think there might be a lot of people in data who think in webs. And that's part of what makes you
good at your job. What we mean by that messiness is understanding that that process of going from
the web to something linear is a messy process. And there isn't going to be one tried and true,
I can always do it this way to make it work. It's accepting that. And that's why this is one of the
problematic threshold concepts for people because you can't remove the mess. There was actually a
speaker this year at Pasa. And this person on the first call came and they'd done the homework,
they'd worked really hard, I could tell on their talk and what they wanted to share. And it was
really well organized, it was clearly articulated. And then the questions they started getting that
from the audience was really showing them that the audience wasn't that interested in that topic.
And it threw them so far off, like, I could just see this person on their face, like, almost going
white, like, what am I going to do? And, you know, I wish I would have been an even better coach in
that moment, because I wish I could have told this person, it's okay, what you're feeling right now,
this is the first call, this is the time to know this, and to feel this, you're not at the end.
So I don't know if I'm fully answering what you're talking about, Grace, except to,
you at one point said, how do I remove the mess? And the idea of this threshold concept is you can't.
No. You have, part of it is accepting the mess and breathing through it and also knowing you're
not alone. This is just part of speaking. And one more point, Grace, because it sounds like
you might be a native French speaker. I'm an Arabic speaker, but I also speak French.
Arabic, okay, Arabic. That is not one that my ear is well trained on. So the other thing is that
people will give a lot of grace to people who are speaking English, as I think you've seen
in the comments. People will give a lot of grace to people who are not speaking their
native language to give a presentation, and you should accept that grace. Yeah, thanks. Thank you.
Thank you. I saw, okay, we have a lot of awesome questions coming in here. I know we have
a little under 20 minutes, but I wanted to make sure I got to, Marlene, you just,
you had asked a question a few minutes ago about like the pace of speech. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. So when I get really excited about what I'm talking about or nervous, either of those two,
my speaking speed goes off the rails. I mean, so fast, almost like my words become one long word.
It's something that I've worked hard on over the last decade, and I still struggle with it,
but I wanted to get some tips or thoughts you have about that, either what you do maybe when
you catch yourself in the middle of a presentation starting to speed up, or if you're just going quick
out the gate because you're worried about time constraints, any tips you have would be helpful
there. Hi, Marlene. I'm also sometimes an excited fast talker, so I can feel you. I'll give you all
like an app actually we've been playing with that you could try out if you wanted to. It's an app
called SpeakOh. Can you put it in the chat for me, Blythe? This is, it's a new like AI-ish kind
of tool, but it gives you metrics. So if you wanted to try and measure your voice, first of
all, I would question whether it's your internal barometer that's telling you it's too fast or
whether externally it's too fast, and these kind of apps can actually help you to determine.
A good rate of speech is somewhere between 125 to 160-ish words per minute.
Some people can listen faster than that, like people who listen to all their podcasts twice,
and two times speed, which I think Blythe does. I can't do that. I'm not a good listener that way,
but what allows us to listen even at faster speeds, so if you catch yourself, Marlene,
talking really fast or anybody else on the call, what you want to do is lean into pauses and
breaths. So when you think about newscasters, they actually speak at an incredibly fast rate of
speech, but we understand them because they put in pauses and they put in breaths, and we think of
those as auditory punctuation. If I were to put text in front of you and remove the periods and
the commas and the, um, any sort of punctuation, it would be very difficult to read. Same with
speaking. We need the punctuation as listeners. So lean into breathing, lean into pausing.
Now there was a subset of what you said, which is one is I get going to excited, I go going fast
with them excited, and the other is I have so much to say and so little time. And if you're in the,
if anyone's in the I have so much to say and so little time bucket, I'm here to tell you that
there is going to be a boxing match always between time and content. Time gets to win.
So if you are rushing because you have so much to say, you actually need to look at your content
and be brutal about cutting because just getting it all in is not effective if people can't listen
to it. So those are the kind of the two subset categories.
Thank you. So while we just talked about a tool, I remember there was an anonymous question that was,
do you have a favorite tool that you use to ignite creativity when planning a presentation?
That's a really good question. And I don't, I mean, I don't know that we do. We often,
people often come to us with an idea about what they want
to include in their presentations. And, or there's a theme for a group of speakers or
something like that. And so we don't often have to do that. Now, there are times when we have to
coax ideas out of people, but we tend to ask questions to do that instead of using a tool.
I mean, I guess there's an easy, like we could say, we can put it into AI. We can put it into
chat GPT and say, what would you talk about for this? And it just, it depends on your comfort
level with that. And you all have probably different tools that you use for AI and to
kick back information like that. But we're just, one of our jobs is asking the questions to get to
something, a topic that people are really excited to talk about if they haven't gotten there already.
Thank you. You could also, I'll just add there, if anybody has tools that they use, I saw like Ted put
mind mapping as a thing, Mila notes. So some people have tools, put them in the chat.
I will also encourage people to lean into the fact that speaking is social. And it is sometimes
just the act of talking about it with someone that can help you to clarify your thinking. If it's
going to be spoken that you give later, then talking it out can be a great tool that I think
people don't always lean on. And frankly, that's part of what gives me a job. So,
people get a lot of ideas because we coach in a social manner.
One thing that came up from one of our people riding on the train that felt like they couldn't
ask was how has Zoom changed how you all coach on presentations or you give presentations?
Is Zoom different than real life? Do you find it hard switching between the two?
What do you do differently? Yeah, and I think Nitesh asked a similar question to this too.
I think that was the one. I couldn't remember the name. Thank you.
I think it's always been true. There's this funny little graphic that we used to show when we were
helping people transition to virtual presentations. And it's this graph where on the y-axis is
interest that people have and the x-axis is length of time speaking. And of course,
at the beginning, people have high interest and then it loops down pretty fast to low interest
as you continue speaking. And I feel like virtual, the biggest difference is that curve is steeper
for most listeners. So your need to be clearer, more concise, and be able to tell people where
you're going very early is much higher in a virtual world. So it takes more effort.
People are more forgiving in an in-person environment because they have a lot of other
stuff that helps them to come to understanding all the non-verbals, just the energy that's there.
So I think the time thing and being more concise would be the biggest. Anything you would add,
Bly? Yeah, go ahead, J.D. I was going to say the first time I presented in a Zoom meeting where I
couldn't see anyone's face. So at least here I can see five people. I presented in one where I could
see nothing. It was an absolute mind melter. I found it was so hard because I was getting no
facial expression feedback. And I didn't know prior to that, that I was incredibly dependent
on that. And I spent that whole thing, part of my head screaming, this is awful. This something
is going terribly wrong because of the lack of facial expressions. Now I watched the recording
of it later and it was fine, but I found that incredibly hard. Yeah, you make a really good
point. And it depends again on your culture, on your company's culture, how you're presenting,
but you can ask people to come on camera. It is a pretty big requirement of Acacia's
and my work that we are able to see the person we're talking to. And so I had a group of
from one company that were not on camera people. And I said, I'm going to need you to come on
camera. And they bristled at it, but they did it. And it enriched the experience because then
you're not staring into the void. The other thing, and this is a really weird thing, and I haven't
done it once yet during this Hangout, is as a speaker, and this is really hard, you want to be
looking at their faces and you should just to get their reaction, but you also want to be looking
into the camera so that they feel like you're making eye contact with them as well. And that's
just one tiny little shift that you can make that can sometimes close the distance. When Vicky
Boykis did the thing she called NormConf, she broadcasted over YouTube live. So lots of people
were on YouTube. So obviously they weren't there in the room with you, but the two hosts were. And
I found that was more than enough to like fill that part of my brain that needed human reaction.
And what I tend to do is I know where my camera's right here, right? So I shrink the window up until
the people I'm talking to are right below that camera. So I can watch them and it's right at
the camera. I mean, I could move the window. So, you know, it's over here, but that's weird as hell
to be talking, looking at you guys in the eye, but you're over here, right? So I put you guys
right up against the camera so that when I'm looking at you, I'm looking at the camera and
that's my like one hack for the virtual host. I usually have to put the main speaker, like the
biggest person covering the full screen, or else I get so distracted by just like wanting to check
if like someone meant to raise their hand or wanted to talk, or it looks like they were going
to say something. And I just am like looking all over the place. But I know Nitesh, this was your
question originally. And so I just wanted to make sure, did you have any follow-up? Because I saw
you said something about like going back and forth between in-person and Zoom too.
Oh, you said no, that's great. Okay. Because that's something that I was just talking about
yesterday when I was in the office in Boston. So if I'm like jumping from an in-person
meeting and talking to someone face-to-face, and then I go on Zoom, like something's happening
to me where it's like very hard for me to do that. And I was wondering like,
how do you go jump between these two different formats?
You know, when we first started like doing a lot more on Zoom, we actually always worked on Zoom
even before the pandemic. We did a lot of coaching with people on Zoom. So I went in thinking I kind
of knew a lot. And then early in the pandemic when everything was on Zoom, I was really noticing like
I was putting so much effort forth when I was on a Zoom call. And I've since been able to notice
what you're talking about, Rachel, which is that when I'm in person, I'm almost unaware of how I'm
using my energy because it is more innately natural to me to be in person. And then I get on
virtual and I need to spend a little more time kind of grounding myself again. So for me, physical
helps. Breathing is one way I've talked about, but physical also helps. So sometimes I'll just like
notice the back of my chair and notice my butt in the chair so that I'm actually here.
Or I'll remember, and I can even look right now at my screen and see, oh my gosh, yeah,
there's a lot of space behind me. There's a whole room. I'm three-dimensional, not two-dimensional.
And then I'll look at the other person and I'll imagine even right now looking at you, Rachel,
you have a virtual background, but I can imagine that there's distance between you and the wall
and you're three-dimensional. And these kind of tricks can help get us back inside our body
so that we don't have like the out-of-body experience, which is my experience of sometimes
when I'm not ready to go back to Zoom is I'm not myself in those moments.
Thank you. Yeah, that's really helpful. Natalia, I see you asked a question a little bit earlier.
I didn't have a chance to actually like read it all at the same time,
but I think it's like touching on when someone's giving advice who's not an expert in the area.
Do you want to jump in? Yeah, sure. And I kind of got the answer in the chat, but yeah,
if there are any additional thoughts on, I know this articulation does a lot of work with a lot
of different industries and therefore presentation themes can vary. So I was curious how to approach
coaching people when you're not an expert in a certain area. However, you're expert in speaking,
which gives you a lot, but you have to kind of guide people in their presentation to like what
to add and remove or pivot the story. So yeah, I was just fascinated in how they approach
coaching for programming topics, especially like heavily technical programming topics
without even being programmers. So yep, that's the question. I'm so glad you brought this up
because it comes to that idea of speaking requires feedback. So it's kind of a great place to start
to wind us towards the end. And if you are in the position, Natalia, like it sounds like you are to
sometimes give feedback, the thing that helps to ground you no matter like how much you know about
the topic is to try and keep two things really crystal clear in your mind. And this is what
Blythe and I are doing. Even if we don't know the topic, we're trying to remember two things. One,
who's the audience? And we try to have our biggest open idea of like, what do we think that audience
wants? Now we can't know 100%, but we try to do our research. We try to make sure we're always
listening like an audience member would listen. So that you're not just learning to deliver a talk
that Acacia likes or Blythe likes. You're learning to deliver a talk that actually the
POSIT audience is going to like. So keep in mind the audience and then always keep in mind the goal
of the speaker. Because when you're giving feedback, sometimes your own wants, especially the closer
you are to the material, your own desire of what you want to convey might start to color your
feedback. And this can be useful in business. Like if you're the leader and you need to make
sure that they have a different goal because they have the wrong goal, that's worth discussing.
But I think it just always helps to keep in mind those two things. What's the audience need
and what's the goal of the speaker?
I think this touches on one. There's one last Slido question I think kind of goes along with
this so we can fit it into the two minutes. But it was, do you have any tips on how to be yourself
when presenting?
So this is where the stress can sometimes get in the way. But I think I read somebody wrote
something like, I used to have a boss who put on a presentation voice. And that's not a great idea.
I used to have a lot of friends who would put on Shakespeare voices to present Shakespeare. And I
was like, we can all just sound like humans when we do. We don't have to sound a specific way.
So it sounds stupid. It sounds pat, but breathing, identifying your stress behaviors, getting ahead
of them, those sorts of things. I was recently on a Posit coaching call with Joe Chang,
and there was someone who was reading their talk. And Joe said, one of the things I love about Posit
is that people make mistakes. And sometimes you'll stumble over your words, but it sounds
natural. And that's what he was really looking for in Posit conf talks. And that's what Acacia and I
are almost always looking for. So I think there's a little bit of fear about, well, if I put on this
character, it's not me and I don't have to worry about it as much because it doesn't reflect on me
in this particular way. But I do think that if you acknowledge the risk and you do everything you
can to mitigate it, which is part of the threshold concepts, if you do everything you can to mitigate
it, go in prepared, know your structure, know what question you're answering, know what your
audience wants, know what your goal is. All of those things are going to help you slide into
being you. And also I'm going to ask everyone to do this. Trust your knowledge. Most of the time
you are there and asked to speak on something because you are a subject matter expert. So trust
your innate, not your innate knowledge, but your learned knowledge. And that is going to be better
than anything you could memorize or plan down to the last second in detail. Just please trust
yourselves a little bit. I will only tack on one thing, which is we want to hear your voice. And by
we, I mean every single audience member you ever have wants to hear your perspective. They want to
hear your authentic voice. So keep that in mind as you're trying your best to do that.
Thank you both so much. This has been so fun. I love this conversation today and I'm so excited
to also get to go read back through some of the conversation in the chat too. Thank you all for
taking the time to join us today too. If it was your first Hangout today, we'd love to have you
back. Again, we have these every Thursday at the same time, same place, except for next week because
we will be at the POSIT conference. But thank you all so much. And Blythe and Acacia, I really
appreciate you jumping on here with us. It's great to talk about our favorite subject. So you got us
on our favorite subject and with such a great group of people. We love the POSIT audience every year.
It's a wonderful community. It makes me want to learn R just so I can join the community.
And if you didn't get your questions asked here and you're going to be at POSITConf, find me in
the hallways. I'm looking forward to seeing you. Thank you all. Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Bye.